welcome to GUI and in web browsers
weekly call for the 1st of April 2020
this week I see we have an action-packed
agendas well maybe jump straight into it
this is me sharing my screen please not
if you can see my screen perfect alright
so the first is sort of like a shout out
and also highlight of how ipfs adoption
is progressing its room project is using
ipfs and ens for hosting their website
so ET room
dot h ET h is e NS name which you can
load in any web browser that has IP has
companion installed or has a support for
DNS resolving if not you need to add
that link suffix and just for the
purpose of demonstration there is this
IP NS colon slash slash link which later
we'll talk about opera and why this link
is important but for now if you open
this you will notice that on my machine
i have active as companion installed
this better version which supports
subdomains so it automatically what
happened here is IP first companion
redirected ET room that eth to local
gateway and that gateway resolve DNS
link using eth dns resolver and in the
end everything ended up on the sub
domain which gave not bad user
experience on the address bar so that's
that's it that's a critical announcement
and demonstration huge yeah i still feel
like we need the the animated the
cinematic version of all of the hijinks
that
take place in order to actually make
that happen I I do take issue with that
it's like a good experience Hugh's
experience at the end give me there's a
big padlock with anteye through it
not secure so there's some work to be
done but still form a community about so
standpoint huge and shouting it was
massive yeah definitely and just to
address the padlock its
Firefox only problem and there is an
open issue which is scheduled to be
closed soon it's so close so the moment
day will hard-code the problem here is
Firefox does not trust the local host
name because it may be hijacked by DNS
resolver what chromium is doing the
hard-coded that to local host IP so they
marked out a secure context in case of
Firefox it's not the case yet but it
will be so if anyone wants to follow
this issue there's like last like two
weeks ago there was a patch which gave
us both like secure context hard-coded
IP but it's not there yet since there
are some bugs they need to fix first I
mean music speed step wait there's still
local studio and a port number so we
still have some work to do step by step
for getting cancer yeah definitely yep
that's the announcement another quick
announcement slash update is subdomain
in IPS companion it was scheduled to
land last week but they did not cuz I
continue to find new bugs and edge cases
and this one is interesting so I thought
I would share so it's about sub resource
quirks
so it's easy when we when you open an
entire website it gets redirected to a
sub domain and that's it like everything
it's loaded from the same origin but
what happens if you got a regular HTTP
web page and that web page has some ipfs
resources and
a sub like a sub resource for example
you're on a page and this image could be
loaded from ipfs dot io or some other
public gateway so what happens in that
mixed environment when you have a
regular website but someone embedded
image from ipfs gateway and we want IDF
s companion to leverage the fact that we
have a local node and load every IP FS
resource from local node instead of a
public gateway this is what companion is
doing right now if it finds ipfs
resource on a page let's say it's a
public forum and someone embedded an
image from a public gateway it will
redirect that specific image not the
entire website which is not on ipfs but
that specific image will be loaded from
ipfs the problem is like most of
websites are secular context they are
loaded from HTTP and if we try to load
sub resource from insecure context that
request will get blocked and here where
it gets interesting so I made a test
page to illustrate this this is I have a
previous beta version of companion which
doesn't ship with the fix yet but it
demonstrates the problem so here this is
a hug hug and B it's HTTP page and that
page has an embedded image from our
public gateway so you can see here the
image did not load and why did it did
not load because the image location is a
public gateway however ipfs companion
will redirect that to a sub domain and
that sub domain as we discussed before
like moments before it's not secure
context yet so it's like our Rube
Goldberg machine which ends up with
image not working however I found a way
we basically would use path of gateway
for sub resources for now in Firefox
I think there's a separate bug in
chromium where they may be a little bit
over the top with like they are on the
side safe side on the security and they
kind of hard called
HTTP protocol when you use proxy setup
so I think there is either a bug or a
feature I need to research it a little
bit more however the same fix which
fixed this should fix it in chromium but
this is like just to illustrate its if
we want to leverage IP first companion
to till it's like limits of what's
possible we we need to address this
before we ship subdomains because I had
a lot of hack pots where I had images
from ipfs and those stopped working and
I to fix that first
so that's my quick update I hope to land
a better with the fix today or tomorrow
and hopefully will that will be it and
will ship to the stable Channel the next
one any questions around this before we
move to the next one
all right
Dietrich do you want to take the problem
I sure I will start but I thinking you
for all the hard work you did in setting
up this page for example that you just
showed us that led to the launch of
upper browser
yesterday for Android day before
yesterday technically but it really got
started out into the Play stores across
all the regions by Tuesday morning
Pacific time had shown up for me in East
Coast us in the place water but yeah
opera for Android a number 57 them I
launched with a cuvettes protocol
support it can load ever since back but
still has a couple of bugs we also
discovered a late-breaking bug where the
Settings panel is not available and
they're gonna ship a an update that
looks like in the next week or two that
will fix that so you can actually
then choose your gateway as we
advertised in a blog post but overall
the reception has been really really
good interesting character they have an
estimated around quarter of a million or
a quarter billion users they're saying
like think they're public numbers or
like 225 million worldwide or something
that across all markets products they
have some interesting products like TV
which is a chunk of their revenue or
they have applications and services and
then they have a numbers on smartphones
desktop dumb phones and different
variations of some of these devices
Opera Mini has deep penetration in
markets Africa so it's really
interesting and then the company itself
also sold to a investment conglomerate
based in China a couple years ago so
just a unique character the source is
not open to the browser as well but
they're very supportive of web three use
cases and stocks the developer needs
which really I profess support was a
easy decision I think therein to make it
just smoothen the developer pathway
there let's make it so that the web 3
apps could load easily in browser
very interesting as well that they're
choosing mobile first which speaks to a
developer demand from that segment for
them and that's something that in other
efforts key all around nascent support
for mobile use cases were close business
cases are you can see more and more of
this over the next year but overall
positive replies in social launched a
bunch of different press coverage they
called it basically like their their
kaboom browser and that really got a lot
of play in the world in some larger tech
press and business press as well so and
I profess has mentioned in almost all of
those in their official press release I
profess was the first thing mentioned in
their list of features so that was a
and try to get some fixes into that
press release around things like the
consistent use of address or addressing
there's some work I think that we have
to do around educating on the
recommended language to use when talking
about these things still using location
location bar things like that but
definitely successful release huge
moment for p2p I think probably one of
the larger places where actually at
least at least close enough one degree
of separation from the actual p2p
network has been been deployed the folks
we don't have access to things like
absolute numbers and statistics metrics
around usage from them but I'm
definitely investigating ways that we
can understand that especially given
either gateway metrics or things like
that but super good it's awesome just
just a quick highlight that they
launched however their rollout on the
Android may be delayed depending on the
region you are in so if it's you you can
install it from the Play Store on
Android however the version dude that
you installed may not have it like yes
that was the case in the beginning of
the week however maybe oh yeah that's
fine go in the first 24 hours was yes
like even in the US or like you're
getting conflicting things like the
release date on the web page on the Play
Store on the correct date but then the
actual one in the place around the
device itself didn't yep awesome awesome
it's so very exciting especially given
that it's the first time the like
mainstream web browser supports
content address content addressed
resources as the first-class citizen
because just like I shared before like
you you have this ipfs : / CID link and
you don't specify location and your
browser will just get it and that's
pretty powerful the fact that its
delegated ipfs client all that stuff is
like important but I think that's the
way we'll look back that would be like
the first step into like moving away
from location addressing how super
awesome thank you Dietrich for pushing
this forward Hugo are you here can you
tell us about browser data store changes
I've been told there's a new data store
for j/s yes can you guys hear me I'm
having some problems with zone because I
don't see and it's your faces if you can
you hear me Alex finds yep we can so I'm
doing a bunch of work related to like
removing no Global's stuff like that so
basically our code base has a lot of
expects a lot of stuff that it's only
available in node so I'm doing some
changes so the browser integration is
easier with bundlers and all that stuff
so I got stuck a little bit on the data
store that we had that Jesus used level
DB so I did some work trying to move the
leveldb ripples to know the global free
environments but I was getting stuck a
lot because there's so many repos some
interaction and abstractions so
basically I have been wanting to do a
new database for a long time so yeah I
did it
you have the the repo there it's it uses
directly index TV number
so there's no rubber around index to be
like leveldb does and actually we didn't
need it like for no it might be we might
have some advantages by using level 2b
but in the browser it was just a wrapper
around index TV so it was me mostly
extra cold wrapping everything so as you
can see the the bundle side is smaller
it's a little bit faster I'm still
seeing like level DB or level J's which
is a browser version of level DVD I
think it's still in lines a little bit
better so if you run it like three or
four times level TV starts to be a
little bit faster than the new data
store but I should be able to work
around it and optimize the code base but
mostly it's easier it's smaller it's
like maintaining maintaining it it's
it's gonna be much simpler because it's
just a few lines of code so yeah that's
basically it awesome I got two questions
the first question is what's the plan
for populating this and making it the
default in J's ipfs because i understand
that we will probably replace the level
DB in the browser bundle with this one
right yes so what's the question
specifically I worried about something
Oh like I'm not working I just wanted to
confirm that eventually this will be the
default in jsap FS and another thing is
I've been playing with Riyad the matrix
clients recently and it had this pop up
asking me do you want to grant this page
persistent data storage which which
reminded me of
so while we make it the default we
probably will add this configuration
option to give it website developer
ability to request the permanent storage
I guess
so that's more people watching this
video than we are on the same page yes
so right now right now this will be
swapped in the in the JSP FS but right
now it will function exactly in the same
way that we have it right now there's no
changes to like the final result like
the top level API will function the same
way there's no new notifications
everything will stay the same just a
little bit smaller a little bit faster
and a lot easier to maintain those
changes that you thought that's future
work at we will definitely need to get
yeah awesome thank you so much for
pushing this forward just in question
when do you expect these two to be
integrated in jessup FS as I'm or as I
will be working soon on the systems for
the peers are in it to be cool to
already use it as fast
so right now I'm just waiting for a
couple of peers to the merge this data
I just finished like a DFS repo tests so
everything is green so at least up and
live up to I profess repo everything
just needs to be much so after after
that as you know I I need to make sure
Jessica fess still works and all that
but right now I just need to be ours to
be revealed in words and everything
should be a real well like hopefully
this week but yeah in Jessica fest I
don't know maybe next week it depends on
how fast like I can get people to review
on merge Pierce okay that's that's cool
I think some any remaining questions
about figures latest on oh just one
remark yeah I saw this is mostly for
like core developers or contributors
that's already dealt with repo or
anything related to data source I saw in
a lot of places like the data stores
being used without calling the open
method because some of the I don't even
know how why this was like all over
little ways but you need to call open on
the database at least on this one on if
you don't call open you'll get an error
explaining I added specific for this use
case because in a lot of places the open
method was not being called and at least
for this one you need to call it or it
doesn't work to get an error telling you
latest or needs to be open so if you see
that you already know what you need to
do you need to call open in a data store
awesome protocol handler API grant
updates I'll make this brief we
discussing the grant to add native
protocol handler for browser extensions
so this will be a generic API
I believe we discuss it a few times
before so here I will just give a quick
update that we have a discussion with
earlier about some details to flesh out
maintain milestones mostly for example
one of one of those is the API for
registering redirect based protocol
handler which is not supported by
chromium yet so there is this API which
lets Firefox users Firefox extension
users to register redirect based
protocol handler in our case we redirect
our public gateway but it's just a
redirect we are not able to return the
payload but still it's something and
chrome chromium project do not have this
I field an issue some time ago and it's
the issue was marked as valid however no
one cares about it so unless we do this
as a part of this grant it won't happen
and I feel it's probably a good
milestone to first deliver feature
parity with Firefox so gets to the level
of redirects being supported in both
places and being able for extension
being able to register protocol handler
and then build this native handler which
is capable of returning bytes on top of
this so this is like a quick update
we'll probably
continued discussion in this long long
long long long follow request however I
just wanted to highlight that the
discussion is happening and the next one
is p2p pub/sub based fuel discovery yeah
so pops up options in the browser are
pretty limited at the moment and they
usually evolve some some middle server
that has a bunch of like weird logic in
there to make that happen so this past
weekend I stopped out the initial work
for a pub sub-base pure discovery module
and it's mostly done I'm just working on
some integration with a relay server but
ultimately what this does is it just
requires that a JSL p2p node or JSI PFS
node run pub/sub and then it subscribes
to a global namespace so it's it's very
much like mdns in the browser but on a
global namespace and so what this will
allow us to do is to query be a public
pub sub publishes and then everybody
will be able to respond to those queries
and so we can get peer discovery there
which is great because now we don't have
to be like we don't have to have the
same intermediary node we could actually
potentially be multiple hops away from
them appear discover them through pub
sub and then be able to connect through
whatever listener those peers are on so
it's great for the future one of the
things that I'm gonna be working on
before this gets released is actually
being able to namespace your discovery
so that you would be able to be like
application specific namespacing for for
peer discovery instead of just binding
to the to the global pre discovery space
this is super cool especially the name
spacing path because the way mdns works
it's basically shouts to everyone on the
local network hey I'm here those are my
addresses and in case of the web that's
sort of like a local
network is the origin so I believe in
the joyous ipfs that like if we talk
about safe default we probably would not
put everyone on the same like namespace
I'm not sure how that would scale if it
gets a lot of usage however if we like
make it bind to an origin and everyone
who's loading J's ipfs only a sleepy 2p
from the same origin can see each other
I think that's much safer default
however like it's a module so people
could have like multiple instances like
one for one origin one for like across
multiple origins for the same company or
suite of products who knows
and they could be a global one with like
best efforts right yeah I think likely
we'll see is the stuff that we hosts for
like will end up deploying a relay
server that listens to this that it will
probably have like maybe its own
namespace and so this kind of like
handles like the Stardust or WebSockets
our server of like okay this is
everybody who's intended to be
connecting to this point and then
potentially you could also subscribe to
to multiple things but that would be
something I need to add to is being able
to subscribe to multiple namespaces and
respond to those queries appropriately
that would be that would be helpful I
think yeah they took your first it's ok
I just wanted to say that I'm happy to
see this this prophecy foretold then
eventually slowly bit by bit all of the
FS will be and this is just a initial
steps down the room
ups up its the world yeah and my
question was what makes more sense to
implement support for listening on
multiple namespaces or just taking a
namespace like a template in a
constructor and if someone wants to
listen on multiple namespaces they just
initialize the same module multiple
times is there like a performance
consideration or is it just like I mean
you could I mean the only I mean the
only performance issue you'd really have
is like the extra objects which is tiny
right because it's not gonna affect
anything else you're still just
subscribing to events so yeah I just
wondered how people are using when
people create a custom Lippe to be set
up or custom J's ipfs but effectively
pass a custom lis p2p set up how they
how they use the same do that you use
the same module multiple times it's hard
to tell yeah not currently and partly
because like live DP configuration is
daunting at the moment but we have an
initiative to clean that up and make
that like a much more functional
approach to configuring Lippa DB and
that would provide a lot more
flexibility to be able to say okay I'm
just gonna instantiate this pub/sub
module like five times and then pass
that into the discovery services and
then call it a day so that would be an
option in the future yeah that's what I
was wondering like some people might may
prefer that approach
kugo I believe you have a hand raised
yeah I would like to ask how are you
kind of testing this stuff are you
handling like multiple browsers and
checking if they can discover each other
and stuff like that
yeah that's what I'm gonna get to at the
next spot like this the module is pretty
close to being ready the major thing I
have right now is I'm configuring I've
got a repo where I'm just building out a
pre-configured relay server so that
people will be able to like deploy it
from a docker container and in there I
have the test suite that uses this and
then it's running like easier to
actually test across the browsers to
make sure that for your discovery is
working so that relays are rich doing a
lot of integration testing
cool
one quick question I'm looking I was
looking through the code and so you
start using imagery the events package
we talked about did you it was seamless
like using it comparing to the normal
event emitter from null or the idea that
some issues with it the main issue is
that it does not emit or he does not a
support
remove listener and so that creates that
created some problems because low p2p
actually is using remove listener
instead of off in a min rate only
supports off and so that was something
that I just had to add and remove
listener method to resolve that so
there's some considerations there of it
basically only applies to like its
emitter II only supports node ten events
syntax okay thank you super super
excited for this one cute too okie ours
for our own connectivity yep so this is
just nice for me I'm migrating all the
carriers from where we drafted them and
PR because triplicates so but one thing
I found here is that I I understand with
general leave the impact because I asked
you all about it every week here in this
meeting the other ones as well but with
the impact of some of this work is but
if you could do me a favor and for your
okrs there it's a list of issues but it
isn't clear what the impact of the some
of those issues are and why this work
needs to be done so for each one of your
cars for Rosco can you just add a couple
of contextual words there that say
because it will reduce page load time or
reduce bundle size or reduce the time
for reconnects or browser based just add
that little bit of contextual
information there because then I can
more easily roll on that than to have
the story that we're telling around our
focus on increasing adoption
making browser and it's faster easier to
use simpler to use things like that
is it in in a spreadsheet somewhere or
talking about dude in the how can be and
then I'm gonna migrate over there
over to the sheet and then into the left
er 19 inch everything as well cool thank
you
yeah no releases this week unless I miss
something and I believe we are at the
end of agenda so it's a time for open
topics or we can if there are not topics
we will probably wrap up sooner but
think about open topics any questions
concerns ideas you want to share has
really pointed many best plug-ins yet I
don't believe so I I had a discussion
with with brave if they are supporting
it right now cuz brave is work but there
are like few read at the time they were
a few versions behind bushes behind so
nothing should we that's a good question
would that be a ground like a grant
adoption grant of sorts I think so I
would absolutely be interested in a
micro grant to at least explore what the
capabilities are and what like if
somebody spends a week just focusing on
identifying what they are if we can use
them what do they give us any more
browser or superpowers we wouldn't
otherwise
the mix makes sense probably we should
should create yet another draft of a
grant to discuss at least the problem
waters if someone is interested in a
yeah I mean maybe that semen just to get
bounty for 500 bucks for somebody to
write up a memo and then maybe you know
following where it could be and micro
grant for it done for some of what make
sense
added to the notes so we don't forget
[Music]
right I know that we have Chris and
Chris has been around for for a week or
two however we got new friends on this
called who's muted however maybe a
gentle user could say a few words say hi
if not it's fine oh hello yeah hi
everyone is this elder I wasn't sure if
this was the birthplace to join I just
wanted to clerk in and hear the meeting
in you know with ipfs Pharrell now and
had a great talk I don't the other day
so yeah that's me Helder nice to meet
you all nothing much to end at this
moment but it was a great pleasure to be
part of the meeting so thanks for all
you've been doing for ipfs it's a great
project that I have a good feelings
towards so the extra impetus to slowly
like me first deploy super useful
I was about to share that that you are
very a very modest person because you
are the person behind ipfs deploy which
is this very cool command-line tool you
created initially it's a super useful
command line tool for quickly publishing
website to ipfs with things
pinning with pinning services so if
someone is watching this and it's using
this and now you know who created it I'm
very glad you like it it's super fun to
see people like taking our ideas and
like run with them and delivering
something even better than what we've
imagined it's the best feeling all right
folks
and I did add one more thing that I
can't believe I forgot which is what
Allen shared on Monday which is the IQs
browser sandbox project his little
weekend project was a electron based
browser that loads I'd be best directly
similar to how beaker does with that and
it's already on github the idea is it's
not we're not even gonna ship it as a
browser but it's a place where people
can experiment and we can show what the
face that's that browser would look like
we talked a lot about this in the past
around having an experimental vehicle
it's where we can say for example
implement the browser design guidelines
or even let me be a person's back and
play with an accessibility accessible
way so where we can take some of the
ideas we have be able to demo them in a
way that's fast and easy top of the
browser did this a couple of weeks
months ago where they released a similar
idea where technology wired up to in
browser nodes and with electron it makes
this really really easy so this is a
place where if you're interested well
then i'm source take a look back on it
it's a place where we can play with
different developer patterns user
patterns design patterns things like
location bar security privacy hopefully
we use it as a tool for experimenting
and prototyping some of the ideas of
that and use it as a tool for
communicating to browsers so that you
can actually have a visceral and
tangible experience of what these
technologies might look like how they
might behave what so the visual
communication challenges are
but it takes Alain for spinning yourself
should show the logo he made the logo
there is a mobile mmm yeah just it just
shows that tation to the detail this
even the logo right now you spent a
whole 40 hours building at those so who
knows
yeah logos look good that's all those
things you could end up wasting a lot of
time on but it certainly doesn't make it
to see more professional and officials
that's cool yeah a lot of mark on the
new tab that you open there
yeah definitely will be a very useful
space to experiment with even like with
the way the protocol handler the old
school protocol handler looks like right
now it's using the paths which is like
so far ahead cool so link to start is in
in the notes I'll give you some silence
now in case you want to bring up topics
proshare something
you
if you don't have any ad hoc thoughts we
can always make it bit shorter this week
it was super action-packed I feel like
it was a lot however we finished 15
minutes earlier so either I don't know
it's the efficiency of doing something
over and over again I think all right
folks I think I'll give you back your 15
minutes thank you for everyone who's
watching thank you for everyone who
shared projects or thoughts and ideas or
updates and see you next week I